This example builds a standalone APECSS code for a laser-induced cavitation bubble, based on the modified Gilmore model presented by [Liang et al., _J. Fluid Mech._ 940 (2022), A5](https://doi.org/10.1017/jfm.2022.202). To this end, the modified Gilmore ODE for the bubble radius, the second-order model describing the particle velocity as a result of the initial shock-driven acceleration of the bubble wall following the adsorption of the laser pulse in water, as well as functions defining a time-dependent equilibrium radius and the gas pressure based on the equilibrium radius, are included in this example. The provided [run.apecss](./run.apecss) file reproduces the bubble dynamics shown in Figs. 7 and 8, and the acoustic emissions at selected time instances shown in Fig. 10, of the paper of Liang et al. using the following execution command: ````./build/lic_apecss -options run.apecss -tend 12e-6````.

Following [Liang et al.](https://doi.org/10.1017/jfm.2022.202), the modified Gilmore equation, including the particle velocity $u_\mathrm{p}$ generated by the initial shock-driven acceleration of the bubble wall, reads as 
$$\left( 1 - \frac{\dot{R}}{c_{\mathrm{L}}} \right) R \left(\ddot{R} - \dot{u}_\mathrm{p} \right) + \frac{3}{2} \left( 1 - \frac{\dot{R}}{3 c_{\mathrm{L}}} \right) \dot{R}^2 = \left( 1 + \frac{\dot{R}}{c_{\mathrm{L}}} \right) H + \left( 1- \frac{\dot{R}}{c_{\mathrm{L}}} \right) \frac{R \dot{H}}{c_{\mathrm{L}}}.$$
where $\dot{u}_\mathrm{p}$ is defined by the second-order model,
$$\dot{u}_\mathrm{p} =
    \begin{cases}
        \dfrac{2 p_0 R_\mathrm{n}(t) + 3\sigma}{3 R_0^4 \,t_\mathrm{lp} \, \sqrt{\rho_0^2 c_0^2 + \frac{4 \rho_0 c_2}{\ln(10) c_1} \, P}} \, (R_\mathrm{n,1}^3 - R_0^3) \, \left[ 1 - \cos\left(\dfrac{\pi \, t}{t_\mathrm{lp}} \right) \right], & \mathrm{for} \ 0 \leq t \leq 2 \, t_\mathrm{lp}\\
         0, & \mathrm{for} \ t > 2 \, t_\mathrm{lp}
     \end{cases}$$
where $c_1 = 5190 \, \mathrm{m/s}$ and $c_2 = 25306 \, \mathrm{m/s}$ are coefficients of the Hugoniot curve of Rice and Walsh, and $R_\mathrm{n}$ is the equilibrium radius defined below. The pressure experienced by the bubble during the laser pulse is 
$$P = p_0 \frac{R^4_\mathrm{n}(t)}{R_0^4} + 2 \sigma  \frac{R^3_\mathrm{n}(t)}{R_0^4}.$$
Assuming the bubble content can be described as an ideal gas, the pressure inside the bubble is given as
$$p_\mathrm{G} = \left(p_\infty + \frac{2 \sigma}{R_\mathrm{n}}\right) \left(\frac{R_\mathrm{n}^3-r_\mathrm{hc}^3}{R^3-r_\mathrm{hc}^3}\right)^\kappa.$$
During the first expansion phase of the bubble, in the time interval $0 \leq t \leq  t_\mathrm{max,1}$, where $t_\mathrm{max,1}$ is the time at which the bubble radius reaches its first maximum, the equilibrium radius is defined as
$$R_\mathrm{n}(t) = \min\left\{  R_\mathrm{n,1}, \sqrt[3]{R_0^3 + \frac{R_\mathrm{n,1}^3-R_0^3}{2 \, t_\mathrm{lp}} \left[t - \frac{t_\mathrm{lp}}{\pi} \, \sin \! \left(\frac{\pi}{t_\mathrm{lp}} \, t \right) \right]} \right\} $$
where $R_\mathrm{n,1}$ is the equilibrium radius during the expansion phase and $t_\mathrm{lp}$ is the duration (full-width at half-maximum) of the laser pulse. Subsequently, the applied equilibrium radius is changed to $R_\mathrm{n,2}$ for $t_\mathrm{max,1} < t \leq  t_\mathrm{max,2}$ and to $R_\mathrm{n,3}$ for $t > t_\mathrm{max,2}$, where $t_\mathrm{max,2}$ is the time at which the bubble radius reaches its second maximum. 